Proposal to make Version Negotiation more like Retry to punt VN to QUICv2 (#2313)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

## Handling Version Negotiation Packets {#handle-vn}

How a client reacts to receiving a Version Negotiation packet is left as future

> work defined by future versions of QUIC.  Future versions of QUIC that define

Reviewer: This isn't right.  This version needs to define what to do.

I recommend having clients abandon a connection attempt in the absence of better advice.

version negotiation with QUIC version 1 MUST define a mechanism that prevents
version downgrade attacks.

### Version Negotiation Between Draft Versions

\[\[RFC editor: please remove this section before publication.]]

When a draft implementation receives a Version Negotiation packet, it MAY use

> it to attempt a new connection with one of the supported versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it to attempt a new connection with one of the versions listed in the packet.
```

## Handling Version Negotiation Packets {#handle-vn}

When a client receives a Version Negotiation packet, it MUST abandon the
current connection attempt.  Version Negotiation packets are designed to allow
future versions of QUIC to negotiate the version in use between endpoints.
It is therefore expected for future versions of QUIC to change how

> implementations of this version of QUIC react to Version Negotiation packets.

Reviewer: I don't think that this can be true.  The point here is that implementations of future versions of QUIC might change how they react to Version Negotiation packets when attempting connections with this version of QUIC.

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                   [Supported Version N (32)]                ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       Unused Payload (*)                    ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~~~
{: #version-negotiation-format title="Version Negotiation Packet"}

The Version field of a Version Negotiation packet MUST be set to 0x00000000.
A Version Negotiation packet contains the following fields:

> Reserved Bits (R):

Reviewer 2: There is a lot of added text here.  Is that because the long header packets are currently not correctly documented?

Author: The added text here is to add new fields to VN packets. This PR adds ODCIL and Original Destination Connection ID to allow the server to send a new source connection ID (similar to how Retry packets work today). The PR also adds a Number of Supported Versions field to allow future extensibility.

   } TransportParameter;

>    struct {

Reviewer: You missed the definition of QuicVersion at the top of this block.

      TransportParameter parameters<0..2^16-1>;

>    } TransportParameters;

Reviewer: This can now be a straight typedef: `TransportParameter TransportParameters<0..2^16-1>;`

connections to time out.  However, this is acceptable only if the routing cannot
be influenced by an attacker.

## Version Downgrade {#version-downgrade}

This document defines QUIC Version Negotiation packets {{version-negotiation}},
which can be used to negotiate the QUIC version used between two endpoints.
However, this document does not specify how this negotiation will be performed
between this version and subsequent future versions.  In particular, Version
Negotiation packets do not contain any mechanism to prevent version downgrade

> attacks.  Future version of QUIC that wish to use Version Negotiation packets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attacks.  Future versions of QUIC that use Version Negotiation packets
```

> to negotiate the use of that version MUST define a mechanism that is robust

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUST define a mechanism that is robust
```
